---
categories: [ Development, OpenVidu]
tags: [ webrtc ] 
---
This post, I will explain the steps I followed in order to make OpenVidu work. Mind you, this process can seem simple and actually prove to be so if you follow the correct guideline. Nevertheless, it is nigh impossible to tell which part of the method you did wrong if and when you receive an error message. Of course, this is something of a hyperbole, because the reason for my retardation could have been derived solely from my lack of intellect. Any way, I sincerely hope that whoever's reading this will not come across the problems I had while trying to implement this damned piece of technology.
## Testing on Local Machine
You know what the surprising thing is? OpenVidu is incredibly easy to use in a local domain. You can simply follow the documentation provided by OpenVidu itself. Here, we are trying to mimic the procedure for 'openvibe-vue' turorial. Firstly, you  run a docker container with the docker image provided by the company.
```bash
docker run -p 4443:4443 --rm -e OPENVIDU_SECRET=MY_SECRET openvidu/openvidu-dev:2.29.0
```
Here, the *'-p 4443:4443'* option maps Docker's port 4443 to the device's port 4443.  '--rm' option automatically deletes image upon the container's termination, and '-e *OPENVIDU_SECRET=MY_SECRET'* sets the environmental variable called *OPENVIDU_SECRET* to the provided string; OpenVidu has environmental options manipulated by the '.env' file, which is currently inaccessible to us (because it's a docker image). The image is automatically downloaded from the archive and deleted accordingly.
The next step makes us follow these instruction:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/OpenVidu/openvidu-tutorials.git -b v2.29.0  
cd openvidu-tutorials/openvidu-basic-java
mvn spring-boot:run
```
Here, we clone the tutorial 


  
## OpenVidu

## Conclusion 


## Reference
[https://docs.openvidu.io/en/stable/tutorials/openvidu-vue/](https://docs.openvidu.io/en/stable/tutorials/openvidu-vue/)
